posts/nypost-censorship.md, before:

# How to Kill a Story in the USA

## Introduction

This document aims to track the unprecedented and coordinated effort by which the neoliberal media and technology companies have attempted to kill and discredit a major, and potentially very damaging, story about the front-runner for President of the United States, Joe Biden. This is occuring while the electorate is actively voting, so access to this information in a timely manner is critical to making informed decisions at the ballot box.

The [story](https://nypost.com/2020/10/14/email-reveals-how-hunter-biden-introduced-ukrainian-biz-man-to-dad/) in question was published by the New York Post, and details potential ethical and legal violations by Joe Biden. It also appears to imply that he lied to the American people when previously asked about this issue.

The goal of this document is **not** to litigate the truthfulness of the NY Post story, but rather to understand the process by which it is being suppressed.

## Methodology

This document is open source. It is provided under the [MIT open source license](https://mit-license.org/). It is written in [markdown](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Markdown) and is currently maintained by [@airshanemode2](https://twitter.com/airshanemode2). It uses publically available information only, and takes care to avoid including information that individuals could reasonably expect to be private.

You can view the history of any changes to this document [here](https://github.com/airshanemode/airshanemode-org/commits/master/posts/nypost-censorship.md).

## Contribute to this document

Contributions to this document are welcomed. You can send any suggestions to the current maintainer via:

* Email - airshanemode@protonmail.com
* Twitter - [@airshanemode2](https://twitter.com/airshanemode2)

If you're familiar with the [git](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Git) version control tool you can fork this site's [repository](https://github.com/airshanemode/airshanemode-org) on github and make a pull request with your changes.

If you'd like, you can be cited however you like for any contributions you provide, though you need to agree to release them under the MIT open source license so that they can be included in this document.

### Suggestion for Contributions

* Additional sources, especially ones that tighten up the timeline
* Additional information about the suppression that occurred on Facebook
* Additional information about coverage received (or not received) on television and traditional media
* Corrections to any of the information presented here
* Spelling corrections, clarified wording, etc
* Anything else you think may be relevant

## Timeline, 10/14

### 5:00am EST

NY Post [story](https://nypost.com/2020/10/14/email-reveals-how-hunter-biden-introduced-ukrainian-biz-man-to-dad/) drops.

### < 9:41am EST

The Biden campaign announces a lid on the press for the day. The NY Post [reports this](https://nypost.com/2020/10/14/joe-biden-goes-into-hiding-amid-the-posts-hunter-biden-expose/) as coming from [Sabrina Siddiqui](https://twitter.com/SabrinaSiddiqui), a National Politics reporter at the Wall Street Journal.

### 10:46am EST

The Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs committee [confirms](https://nypost.com/2020/10/14/senate-committee-investigating-hunter-biden-hard-drive-email/?utm_source=NYPTwitter&utm_medium=SocialFlow&utm_campaign=SocialFlow) to the NY Post that they are conducting an investigation into the allegations made by the Post.

### 11:10am EST

#### Facebook suppression is announced on Twitter

[Andy Stone](https://twitter.com/andymstone/), announces that FB will be "limiting the spread of the story" in a [tweet](https://twitter.com/andymstone/status/1316395902479872000).

Stone works in communications at FB, and according to his twitter bio he previously worked for:

* [@HouseMajPAC](https://twitter.com/HouseMajPAC)
* [@SenatorBoxer](https://twitter.com/SenatorBoxer)
* [@DCCC](https://twitter.com/DCCC)
* [@RepMcNerney](https://twitter.com/RepMcNerney)

While Stone is clearly a career long democratic operative, it's not clear how important this is, since Stone's role in the decision to suppress the story is unclear.

#### Jordan Howell, Erin Banco (needs confirmation), and potentially other associated reporters arrive at Isaac's shop

We know this timing is correct because someone, likely Jordan Howell, says as much during the [interview](https://soundcloud.com/rptrbnd/mac-shop-10-14-cm) at timecode 29:30.

### 1:05pm EST

Biden campaign spokesperson Andrew Bates releases a [statement](https://twitter.com/johnrobertsFox/status/1316424957694484481) broadly denying the claims of the NY Post story.

### 1:44pm EST

[Jonathan Chait](https://twitter.com/jonathanchait) [publishes a story](https://twitter.com/jonathanchait/status/1316446422837809159) alleging that the information came not from a computer repair shop in Delaware, but via Russian hackers that colluded with the Trump campaign. The story provides absolutely no evidence for this wild claim.

This story is widely shared on social media.

### < 2:41pm EST

Twitter begins blocking any attempt to share links to the NY Post story publically or in private messages.

#### Sources

* [Yashar Ali on Twitter](https://twitter.com/yashar/status/1316448945166577665)

### 2:52pm EST

Allegations that twitter is causing accounts to unfollow [Sohrab Ahmari](https://twitter.com/SohrabAhmari), an Op-Ed editor at the NY Post that [tweeted](https://twitter.com/SohrabAhmari/status/1316446749729398790) about the suppression on twitter. Ahmari [asserts](https://twitter.com/SohrabAhmari/status/1316490630953086976) this is part of a campaign to "silence" him. These allegations appear to be unsubstantiated.

#### Sources

* [Robby Starbucks on Twitter](https://twitter.com/robbystarbuck/status/1316451821758689287)

### < 3:00pm EST

The Daily Beast associated reporters at Isaac's shop begin recording an interview. We know this to be the case because the interview is 52 minutes long, and it was posted at 3:52pm EST. We can surmise that the interview took place at the repair shop since they refer to it as "this shop" during the interview, and we can hear what may be a customer or employee leaving at the start of the interview.

The byline of the story and Banco's subsequent tweets about it would seem to imply that one of the interviewers is Banco. Comparing her [voice](https://youtu.be/9MHxlAJO_wA?t=1261) to the voices of the reporters in the [interview](https://soundcloud.com/rptrbnd/mac-shop-10-14-cm) lends further evidence to this thery.

#### Relevant public details on the reporters involved

##### Jordan Howell

Local Deleware journalist, co-founder of [Delaware Call](http://delawarecall.com).

* [@JordanmHowell](https://twitter.com/JordanmHowell)
* [Delware Call stories](http://delawarecall.com/author/jordan-howell/)
* [Muck Rack profile](https://muckrack.com/jordan-howell-3)

##### Erin Banco

National security reporter at the Daily Beast.

* [Daily Beast profile](https://www.thedailybeast.com/author/erin-banco)
* [@ErinBanco](https://twitter.com/ErinBanco)

### 3:52pm EST

The Daily Beast files a deceptive [story](https://www.thedailybeast.com/man-who-reportedly-gave-hunters-laptop-to-rudy-speaks-out-in-bizarre-interview) about their [interview](https://soundcloud.com/rptrbnd/mac-shop-10-14-cm). The story misrepresents the interview and only focuses on a few statements which it takes out of context, possibly in an effort to discredit Isaac and the the story.

According to a [tweet](https://twitter.com/JordanmHowell/status/1316470065320144896) by Howell, he was contacted by a couple of staffers at the Daily Beast to coordinate the story:

* [Matt Taylor](https://twitter.com/matthewt_ny) - National Editor at the Daily Beast
* [Sam Stein](https://twitter.com/samstein) - Politics Editor at the Daily Beast

The byline of story names Jordan Howell and Erin Banco as the authors.

#### Examples of misleading statements and falsehoods in the story

* The title of the story calls the interview "bizarre", when it is anything but. Isaac repeatedly explains himself, and while he chooses not to answer some questions, as he repeats dozens of times, he's scared for his life. He may also be worried about legal liability.
* The story very strongly implies that Isaac doesn't have a legitimate reason for believing that the laptop is Hunter Biden's or that he's fabricating it, because he has a medical condition that prevented him from identifying the customer. This (almost certainly intentionally) leaves out the many additional reasons that Isaac provides for believing the laptop is Hunter Biden's, including: the customer identifying himself as Hunter Biden, the files on the laptop indicated it was Hunter Biden's, and the FBI appears to have communicated to him that they believe it to be Hunter Biden's.
* The story suggests that the Seth Rich conspiracy theory is the reason for his "paranoia", which the authors imply is unjustified and possibly evidence that he's not trustworthy. The audio of the interview reveals this isn't the case. While Isaac does reference Seth Rich once, this is only after persistent needling by the reporters who consistently dismiss his concerns for his safety.

### 3:55pm EST

Erin Banco posts a [tweet thread](https://twitter.com/ErinBanco/status/1316467766921175041) about the Daily Beast story, repeating false and deceptive statements from the story to her 38k followers.

### < 4:04pm EST

Twitter locks the NY Post Twitter account.

#### Sources

  * [Josh Hawley on Twitter](https://twitter.com/HawleyMO/status/1316470069086564352)

### 5:23pm EST

[Rachel Maddow](https://twitter.com/maddow) posts an uncritical [tweet](https://twitter.com/maddow/status/1316489866205683719) about the Daily Beast story that goes out to her 10.2 million followers.

### ~6:00pm EST

Twitter runs a [trend](https://twitter.com/i/events/1316398754883272704) that attempts to discredit assertions in the NY Post article, based only on a Washington Post [story](https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2019/09/27/quick-guide-trumps-false-claims-about-ukraine-bidens/) from September 2019. This article is itself a regurgitation of an even earlier WaPo [story](https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/as-vice-president-biden-said-ukraine-should-increase-gas-production-then-his-son-got-a-job-with-a-ukrainian-gas-company/2019/07/21/f599f42c-86dd-11e9-98c1-e945ae5db8fb_story.html) from July 2019.

The wording of the trend appears to be designed to emphasize that the NY Post article is false, rather than suggesting it may be contradicted by prior reporting, which itself is only based on quotes from a couple of sources close to the matter in Ukraine:

"Joe Biden did not push out a Ukrainian prosecutor for investigating his son, Washington Post confirms"

The timing of this trend's run can be verified as it was [screenshotted](https://twitter.com/airshanemode2/status/1316530229230407680).

### 7:44pm EST

[@TwitterSafety](https://twitter.com/TwitterSafety) releases [thread](https://twitter.com/TwitterSafety/status/1316525303930458115) on the suppression claiming that it was due to personal and hacked material in the article. This is their first public statement on the topic.

This thread provides some justification for the censorship, but makes no statement regarding reversing the decision.

### 7:55pm EST

[Jack Dorsey](https://twitter.com/jack), Twitter CEO, [tweets](https://twitter.com/jack/status/1316528193621327876) saying that the communication around the censorship was "not great". He makes no apology for the censorship itself, nor does he express any intent to reverse the action.

Commit message:

update to include locking of press sec twitter account

posts/nypost-censorship.md, after:

# How to Kill a Story in the USA

## Introduction

This document aims to track the unprecedented and coordinated effort by which the neoliberal media and technology companies have attempted to kill and discredit a major, and potentially very damaging, story about the front-runner for President of the United States, Joe Biden. This is occuring while the electorate is actively voting, so access to this information in a timely manner is critical to making informed decisions at the ballot box.

The [story](https://nypost.com/2020/10/14/email-reveals-how-hunter-biden-introduced-ukrainian-biz-man-to-dad/) in question was published by the New York Post, and details potential ethical and legal violations by Joe Biden. It also appears to imply that he lied to the American people when previously asked about this issue.

The goal of this document is **not** to litigate the truthfulness of the NY Post story, but rather to understand the process by which it is being suppressed.

## Methodology

This document is open source. It is provided under the [MIT open source license](https://mit-license.org/). It is written in [markdown](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Markdown) and is currently maintained by [@airshanemode2](https://twitter.com/airshanemode2). It uses publically available information only, and takes care to avoid including information that individuals could reasonably expect to be private.

You can view the history of any changes to this document [here](https://github.com/airshanemode/airshanemode-org/commits/master/posts/nypost-censorship.md).

## Contribute to this document

Contributions to this document are welcomed. You can send any suggestions to the current maintainer via:

* Email - airshanemode@protonmail.com
* Twitter - [@airshanemode2](https://twitter.com/airshanemode2)

If you're familiar with the [git](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Git) version control tool you can fork this site's [repository](https://github.com/airshanemode/airshanemode-org) on github and make a pull request with your changes.

If you'd like, you can be cited however you like for any contributions you provide, though you need to agree to release them under the MIT open source license so that they can be included in this document.

### Suggestion for Contributions

* Additional sources, especially ones that tighten up the timeline
* Additional information about the suppression that occurred on Facebook
* Additional information about coverage received (or not received) on television and traditional media
* Corrections to any of the information presented here
* Spelling corrections, clarified wording, etc
* Anything else you think may be relevant

## Timeline, 10/14

### 5:00am EST

NY Post [story](https://nypost.com/2020/10/14/email-reveals-how-hunter-biden-introduced-ukrainian-biz-man-to-dad/) drops.

### < 9:41am EST

The Biden campaign announces a lid on the press for the day. The NY Post [reports this](https://nypost.com/2020/10/14/joe-biden-goes-into-hiding-amid-the-posts-hunter-biden-expose/) as coming from [Sabrina Siddiqui](https://twitter.com/SabrinaSiddiqui), a National Politics reporter at the Wall Street Journal.

### 10:46am EST

The Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs committee [confirms](https://nypost.com/2020/10/14/senate-committee-investigating-hunter-biden-hard-drive-email/?utm_source=NYPTwitter&utm_medium=SocialFlow&utm_campaign=SocialFlow) to the NY Post that they are conducting an investigation into the allegations made by the Post.

### 11:10am EST

#### Facebook suppression is announced on Twitter

[Andy Stone](https://twitter.com/andymstone/), announces that FB will be "limiting the spread of the story" in a [tweet](https://twitter.com/andymstone/status/1316395902479872000).

Stone works in communications at FB, and according to his twitter bio he previously worked for:

* [@HouseMajPAC](https://twitter.com/HouseMajPAC)
* [@SenatorBoxer](https://twitter.com/SenatorBoxer)
* [@DCCC](https://twitter.com/DCCC)
* [@RepMcNerney](https://twitter.com/RepMcNerney)

While Stone is clearly a career long democratic operative, it's not clear how important this is, since Stone's role in the decision to suppress the story is unclear.

#### Jordan Howell, Erin Banco (needs confirmation), and potentially other associated reporters arrive at Isaac's shop

We know this timing is correct because someone, likely Jordan Howell, says as much during the [interview](https://soundcloud.com/rptrbnd/mac-shop-10-14-cm) at timecode 29:30.

### 1:05pm EST

Biden campaign spokesperson Andrew Bates releases a [statement](https://twitter.com/johnrobertsFox/status/1316424957694484481) broadly denying the claims of the NY Post story.

### 1:44pm EST

[Jonathan Chait](https://twitter.com/jonathanchait) [publishes a story](https://twitter.com/jonathanchait/status/1316446422837809159) alleging that the information came not from a computer repair shop in Delaware, but via Russian hackers that colluded with the Trump campaign. The story provides absolutely no evidence for this wild claim.

This story is widely shared on social media.

### < 2:41pm EST

Twitter begins blocking any attempt to share links to the NY Post story publically or in private messages.

#### Sources

* [Yashar Ali on Twitter](https://twitter.com/yashar/status/1316448945166577665)

### 2:52pm EST

Allegations that twitter is causing accounts to unfollow [Sohrab Ahmari](https://twitter.com/SohrabAhmari), an Op-Ed editor at the NY Post that [tweeted](https://twitter.com/SohrabAhmari/status/1316446749729398790) about the suppression on twitter. Ahmari [asserts](https://twitter.com/SohrabAhmari/status/1316490630953086976) this is part of a campaign to "silence" him. These allegations appear to be unsubstantiated.

#### Sources

* [Robby Starbucks on Twitter](https://twitter.com/robbystarbuck/status/1316451821758689287)

### < 3:00pm EST

The Daily Beast associated reporters at Isaac's shop begin recording an interview. We know this to be the case because the interview is 52 minutes long, and it was posted at 3:52pm EST. We can surmise that the interview took place at the repair shop since they refer to it as "this shop" during the interview, and we can hear what may be a customer or employee leaving at the start of the interview.

The byline of the story and Banco's subsequent tweets about it would seem to imply that one of the interviewers is Banco. Comparing her [voice](https://youtu.be/9MHxlAJO_wA?t=1261) to the voices of the reporters in the [interview](https://soundcloud.com/rptrbnd/mac-shop-10-14-cm) lends further evidence to this thery.

#### Relevant public details on the reporters involved

##### Jordan Howell

Local Deleware journalist, co-founder of [Delaware Call](http://delawarecall.com).

* [@JordanmHowell](https://twitter.com/JordanmHowell)
* [Delware Call stories](http://delawarecall.com/author/jordan-howell/)
* [Muck Rack profile](https://muckrack.com/jordan-howell-3)

##### Erin Banco

National security reporter at the Daily Beast.

* [Daily Beast profile](https://www.thedailybeast.com/author/erin-banco)
* [@ErinBanco](https://twitter.com/ErinBanco)

### 3:52pm EST

The Daily Beast files a deceptive [story](https://www.thedailybeast.com/man-who-reportedly-gave-hunters-laptop-to-rudy-speaks-out-in-bizarre-interview) about their [interview](https://soundcloud.com/rptrbnd/mac-shop-10-14-cm). The story misrepresents the interview and only focuses on a few statements which it takes out of context, possibly in an effort to discredit Isaac and the the story.

According to a [tweet](https://twitter.com/JordanmHowell/status/1316470065320144896) by Howell, he was contacted by a couple of staffers at the Daily Beast to coordinate the story:

* [Matt Taylor](https://twitter.com/matthewt_ny) - National Editor at the Daily Beast
* [Sam Stein](https://twitter.com/samstein) - Politics Editor at the Daily Beast

The byline of story names Jordan Howell and Erin Banco as the authors.

#### Examples of misleading statements and falsehoods in the story

* The title of the story calls the interview "bizarre", when it is anything but. Isaac repeatedly explains himself, and while he chooses not to answer some questions, as he repeats dozens of times, he's scared for his life. He may also be worried about legal liability.
* The story very strongly implies that Isaac doesn't have a legitimate reason for believing that the laptop is Hunter Biden's or that he's fabricating it, because he has a medical condition that prevented him from identifying the customer. This (almost certainly intentionally) leaves out the many additional reasons that Isaac provides for believing the laptop is Hunter Biden's, including: the customer identifying himself as Hunter Biden, the files on the laptop indicated it was Hunter Biden's, and the FBI appears to have communicated to him that they believe it to be Hunter Biden's.
* The story suggests that the Seth Rich conspiracy theory is the reason for his "paranoia", which the authors imply is unjustified and possibly evidence that he's not trustworthy. The audio of the interview reveals this isn't the case. While Isaac does reference Seth Rich once, this is only after persistent needling by the reporters who consistently dismiss his concerns for his safety.

### 3:55pm EST

Erin Banco posts a [tweet thread](https://twitter.com/ErinBanco/status/1316467766921175041) about the Daily Beast story, repeating false and deceptive statements from the story to her 38k followers.

### < 4:04pm EST

Twitter locks the NY Post Twitter account.

#### Sources

  * [Josh Hawley on Twitter](https://twitter.com/HawleyMO/status/1316470069086564352)

### 5:23pm EST

[Rachel Maddow](https://twitter.com/maddow) posts an uncritical [tweet](https://twitter.com/maddow/status/1316489866205683719) about the Daily Beast story that goes out to her 10.2 million followers.

### ~6:00pm EST

Twitter runs a [trend](https://twitter.com/i/events/1316398754883272704) that attempts to discredit assertions in the NY Post article, based only on a Washington Post [story](https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2019/09/27/quick-guide-trumps-false-claims-about-ukraine-bidens/) from September 2019. This article is itself a regurgitation of an even earlier WaPo [story](https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/as-vice-president-biden-said-ukraine-should-increase-gas-production-then-his-son-got-a-job-with-a-ukrainian-gas-company/2019/07/21/f599f42c-86dd-11e9-98c1-e945ae5db8fb_story.html) from July 2019.

The wording of the trend appears to be designed to emphasize that the NY Post article is false, rather than suggesting it may be contradicted by prior reporting, which itself is only based on quotes from a couple of sources close to the matter in Ukraine:

"Joe Biden did not push out a Ukrainian prosecutor for investigating his son, Washington Post confirms"

The timing of this trend's run can be verified as it was [screenshotted](https://twitter.com/airshanemode2/status/1316530229230407680).

### < 6:43pm EST

US Press Secretary Kayleigh McEnany's [personal twitter account](https://twitter.com/kayleighmcenany) is [locked](https://twitter.com/TrumpWarRoom/status/1316510056591040513) for sharing the NY Post story. She later tells Hannity that Twitter support told her they wouldn't unlock her account unless she deleted the tweet, according to a [story](https://thehill.com/homenews/media/521170-kayleigh-mcenany-twitter-had-me-at-gunpoint-by-locking-account) in The Hill.

### 7:44pm EST

[@TwitterSafety](https://twitter.com/TwitterSafety) releases [thread](https://twitter.com/TwitterSafety/status/1316525303930458115) on the suppression claiming that it was due to personal and hacked material in the article. This is their first public statement on the topic.

This thread provides some justification for the censorship, but makes no statement regarding reversing the decision.

### 7:55pm EST

[Jack Dorsey](https://twitter.com/jack), Twitter CEO, [tweets](https://twitter.com/jack/status/1316528193621327876) saying that the communication around the censorship was "not great". He makes no apology for the censorship itself, nor does he express any intent to reverse the action.
